# Data Upload API

Pegasus allows you to upload custom device data via an HTTP POST method. For example, position related information from other telemetry devices for analysis in the Pegasus API & visualization in the Pegasus Application.

Data can be uploaded and associated to an entity type [vehicle](#vehicles) or to an entity type: [asset](#assets).

## Vehicle

Instructions for [Gateway Administrator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1C5VIos3IKzb30iGwXy8dn1OukIPePL5E) / [End user/developer](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Vz65R6U6J9ZfvB9j_EJeMnAJ7YusQd-U)

### Intro

In order to receive data from third party devices via an HTTP POST JSON, you'll need to:

* Step 1: Activate the JSON receiver for your Pegasus Gateway
* Step 2: Add the device IMEI that you'll be sending data from to the API

For both of these steps you can contact your [sales representative](mailto:sales@digitalcomtech.com).

After these steps are done you'll be given an endpoint for you to send the data to, the default Pegasus 1 endpoint is:

* https://pegasus1.peginstances.com/receivers/json

But yours will be different.

### Data structure

Data is uploaded in key-value pairs in a JSON array format via an HTTP POST request.

`[{"boolean":true, "number":73, "string":"value"}]`

Arrays of up to 50 JSON objects can be sent simultaneously. Each object corresponds to an event generated by different
telemetry devices which has locational data.

`[{"event1":"value1"}, {"event2":"value2"}, ... {"event49":"value49"}]`

### Fields

> Example Payload

```json
[
    {
        "timestamp": 1561475702,
        "device.name": "MyDevice12345",
        "device.id": 350000000012345,
        "position.latitude": 10.356101,
        "position.longitude": -75.495798,
        "position.direction": 245,
        "position.speed": 20,
        "position.altitude": 13,
        "position.hdop": 0.6,
        "position.satellites": 12,
        "position.valid": true,
        "event.enum": 24,
        "event.label": "ignon",
        "io.ignition": true,
        "io.power": true,
        "io.input1": true,
        "device.battery.level": 3420,
        "metric.odometer": 66675.456,
        "metric.hourmeter": 375.123
    }
]
```

The required parameters to send in the ARRAY_OF_EVENTS are:

* device.id - IMEI of the device
* position.latitude - latitude (example: 20.99385)
* position.longitude - longitude (example: -89.71079)

If these fields are not received, the message is considered a keep alive and the contents are discarded.


param | type | description | required
:---------------|:-----|:------------|:-------:|
`timestamp` | number | Unix epoch timestamp 
`device.name` | string | Name for the device | 
`device.id` | number | IMEI on Pegasus (15 digit) | ✔️
`position.latitude` | number | WGS84 latitude | ✔️
`position.longitude` | number | WGS84 longitude | ✔️
`position.direction` | number | Heading in degrees 0 - 359 (0 = North, 90 = East, etc.) | 
`position.speed` | number | Speed in kph | 
`position.altitude` | number | Altitude in meters | 
`position.hdop` | number | Horizontal dilution of precision (Wiki) | 
`position.satellites` | number | Amount of GPS Satellites | 
`position.valid` | boolean | True if the positional data is valid | 
`event.enum` | number | Custom numeric code | 
`event.label` | string | Payload content description, see [common labels](#common-labels) | 
`io.ignition` | boolean | True if ignition is detected | 
`io.power` | boolean | True if main power is detected | 
`io.input1` | boolean | True if a device input is detected | 
`device.battery.level` | number | Battery level in milli-volts | 
`device.battery.percent` | number | Battery level as a percent | 
`metric.odometer` | number | Odometer in km (decimals accepted) | 
`metric.hourmeter` | number | Engine hours (decimals accepted) | 

The expected response from the receiver is HTTP status 200, “ok” when the data was successfully uploaded.
A wrong payload returns a 400 Bad Request.

### FAQ

* The io params (io.ignition, io.power, io.input1) persist until they’re sent as false.
* Sending the valid_position parameter as true overrides the internal filters that calculate the validity of the position using other parameters, send it as true only if you are sure that it’s valid.
* If the epoch timestamp is not provided, as soon as the message is received the server will apply a Unix timestamp as the time of the event.
* Whenever you send the timestamp make sure to consider sending them in chronological order whenever the device comes back online after being offline. It’s not required, but it’s strongly recommended.
* Input 1 behaves as both a normal two state ON/OFF switch, or a panic alert depending on the label that’s associated to the payload.
* A valid 15 digit IMEI is required on the device.id


## Assets

### Authentication

> POST [/api/assets](https://pegasus1.pegasusgateway.com/api/assets)

> creating an asset

```json
{
  "first_name": "name of asset",
  "type": "tracking_device"
}
```

> 200 OK (id: 3315)

```json
{
  "info": {},
  "__updated": 1553211859.1255651,
  "name": "name of asset ",
  "ibuttons": [],
  "__created": 1553211859.1255569,
  "fingerprints": [],
  "primary": null,
  "properties": {},
  "images": {},
  "token": null,
  "tracker": {
    "active": false,
    "asset_id": 3315,
    "token": null
  },
  "groups": [],
  "device": null,
  "rfids": [],
  "type": "asset",
  "id": 3315,
  "counters": null
}
```

> enabling the Taurus tracker code

> PUT [/api/assets/3315](https://pegasus1.pegasusgateway.com/api/assets/3315)

```json
{
  "tracker_mode": true
}
```

> 200 OK

```json
{
  ...
  "tracker": {
    "asset_id": 3315,
    "site_id": 1,
    "site_url": "pegasus1.pegasusgateway.com",
    "active": true,
    "token": "UTNZEHBL",
    "device": 450000141115142
  },
  ...
}
```

> setting the configuration to the device

> POST [/api/device-config/450000141115142](https://pegasus1.pegasusgateway.com/api/device-config/450000159088405)

```json
{
  "ky": "s000"
}
```

> 200 OK

```json
{
  "kydef": {},
  "kymod": {},
  "total_count": 19,
  "_config_state": 1,
  "_epoch": 1553253405.348958,
  "ky": "s000",
  "devconfig_id": 9188,
  "pending": true
}
```

To get started we'll need to generate a token that we'll use to reference the asset that we want to populate data with on Pegasus Gateway.
In order to create this token you'll have to create a new asset via the POST [/assets](https://pegasus1.pegasusgateway.com/api-static/docs/#api-Assets-CreateAsset)
here you can populate the asset with the included parameters such as `first_name`, `last_name`, `email`, `type` (type is required), etc.

After you create the asset you'll need to activate a token for it, to do this make a PUT [/assets](https://pegasus1.pegasusgateway.com/api-static/docs/#api-Assets-UpdateAsset) with `tracker_mode: true`.

This will generate a unique `token` for that particular asset that we can use to POST data to. Example token: UTNZEHBL

To prepare the asset to receive data we have to assign the device associated to this asset a configuration. This can be done with POST `/api/device-config/:imei` sending a key `ky` with the value `s000` 

&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>

### Upload data

> POST https://api.pegasusgateway.com/assets/event?tracker=UTNZEHBL

> note that the POST is always made to 'api.pegasusgateway.com'

> using server time

```json
{
  "latitude": 20.993852,
  "longitude": -89.710796,
  "mph": 10,
  "heading": 342,
  "altitude": 10,
  "label": "ignon",
  "use_server_time": true
}
```

> 200 OK

```json
{
  "message": "event processed successfully"
}
```

> using an epoch

```json
{
  "latitude": 21.993852,
  "longitude": -90.710796,
  "mph": 99,
  "heading": 193,
  "altitude": 200,
  "label": "ignoff",
  "use_server_time": false,
  "epoch": 1553187370
}
```


In order to publish telemetry data to Pegasus server, send POST request to the following URL:
`https://api.pegasusgateway.com/assets/event?tracker=:token`

replacing `:token` with the token generated previously.

The only keys the upload API is accepting at the moment are:

param | type | description
------|------|------------
latitude | number | WGS84 latitude
longitude | number | WGS84 longitude
mph | number | speed in mph
heading | number | heading in degrees 0-359 0=north, 90=east, etc.
altitude | number | device altitude in meters
[label] | string | event label (if not specified a `trckpnt` is automatically assigned) see list of labels [below](#common-labels)
use_server_time | boolean | true to use a server timestamp for the incoming data

### Common labels

label | description
-----:|------------
prdtst| Periodic report with ignition OFF
trckpnt| Periodic report with Ignition ON (default if no label is set)
ignon | Ignition was turned ON
ignoff| Ignition was turned OFF
panic | report when a panic button is pressed
pwrloss| Main power was lost
pwrrstd| Main power was restored
lwbatt | Low internal device battery
spd | Speeding
idl | Idling
stt | Device motion
stp | Device stopped moving
in1on | Input 1 ON
in1off | Input 1 OFF
in2on | Input 2 ON
in2off | Input 2 OFF
in3on | Input 3 ON
in3off | Input 3 OFF

For a full list of the core labels please check out the core labels api: [`api/core_labels`](https://pegasus1.pegasusgateway.com/api/core_labels?auth=06e06ce41fea91c5cb75b471271e95cbe7ce77cd8cd2f45d4f097abe)

Please note that if the `use_server_time` is not set, the server-side timestamp will be assigned to uploaded data!

In case your device is able to get the client-side timestamp, you can use following format:

{"epoch":1532452713}

In the example above, we assume that “1532452713” is a unix timestamp with seconds precision. ‘1532452713’ corresponds to ‘Tuesday, July 24, 2018 5:18:33 PM GMT’


